Klondike 95     BETA DOCS
~~~~~~~~~~~

   CONTENTS   1) Introduction
              2) Requirements
              3) Files
              4) Gameplay
              5) Additional Notes
               5.1) Game Shortcuts
               5.2) Loops Counter
               5.3) Cardset Selector
               5.4) Additional Cardsets
               5.5) Known Problems
              6) Utilities
               6.1) CARDINFO
               6.2) SPLTCRDS
              7) Technical Notes
              8) Test Machine Specifications
              9) Credits
              10) Contacts (EMail)


1) Introduction

This version of Klondike was inspired by Klondike Deluxe AGA for the Amiga,
and in fact uses the same cardsets. Unfortunately, few utility programs have
yet been ported to the PC, so it is not possible to manipulate cardset data
a great deal on the PC.

This game is freeware, so spread it around as much as you wish - the original
REKO Productions game is non-crippled shareware with registered users being
able to order cardsets, etc.


2) Requirements

386 processor or above *
VESA 1.2+ compatible Super VGA graphics card (min 1Mb)
128K conventional memory
1.5Mb DPMI memory **
1.4 to 3Mb hard disk space (depending on options)
Windows 95 not essential, but v.nice - long filenames are supported!

*  Though the game as a whole has only been tested on 486 and Pentium based
   machines, the cardset handling is known to work on 386 machines.

** DPMI services are required - e.g. Qemm (QDPMI) or (hint hint) Windows 95.


3) Files

KLONDIKE.EXE         the actual game
DATA\STDPREFS.REK    prefs 'cards'
DATA\*.CSI           cardset information files
DATA\*.KLN           pictures (private custom format)
DECKS\*.REK          cardsets (except STDPREFS.REK)
DOCS\*.TXT           text files, read them if you like
UTILS\*.*            utilities and documentation


4) Gameplay (from the original Amiga docs - don't blame us!)

For you who don't know how to play Klondike don't panic, I'll explain this in
the following text.

In the initial setup of Klondike there are seven rows in the upper part of
the screen. In the first row lies one card, in the second two and so on,
until in the last row there are seven. You can only see the front side of the
first cards in one row. In the stock, which is in the lower left corner of
the screen, are the rest of the cards. Now you can put a card of one colour,
on the other colour, but these cards must follow up each other. e.g. You can
put a red three, on a black four (types of cards are not very important at
this point). You can get cards to do this from another row or the stock in
the lower left corner of the screen.

If you can't change anything in the upper part of the screen, you must click
on the stock to rotate the cards in the stock and you get a new card on top
of the stock.

On the four ace places in the lower right part of the screen you can put the
aces, followed by a two, three and so on. This must be the same type of card.
e.g. spades.

If you have a king you can put it on an empty place in the upper screen. You
can only do this with a king!

If you played it right all cards of one kind lie on top of each other from
ace to king. If everything went right only the four ace places are filled
with all the cards and the rest of the screen is empty.


5) Additional Notes


5.1) Game Shortcuts

Double clicking on an Ace will quickly put the Ace on the first available
empty 'suits' pile, and from there double clicking on a two will put it on
the corresponding ace, etc.


5.2) Loops Counter

The loops counter on the main screen was added for fun and counts the number
of times you've gone right through the entire deck and flipped the cards back
for another pass. The game has been completed using only 3 'loops'. Can you
do any better?


5.3) Cardset Selector

At the bottom of the game screen between the 'suits' and the deck is the
about/prefs/restart/quit system. The 'Prefs' button brings up a 'card' with
three buttons - only the cardset button works at this point and this brings
up a cardset selector screen.

The button at the top right of the selector screen is another way to quit the
game - it reflects the host O/S (MSDOS/Windows/Windows95).

The list shows the name of the cardset files and supports Windows 95 style
long file names where available, so if you rename 'AIRBRUSH.REK' to something
like 'Rather Nice Airbrushed Deck.rek', it will show up as such whenever long
filenames are available.

Select a cardset by clicking on a cardset in the list and clicking on SELECT
(between the list scroll bar arrows) or by double clicking on the name.

If a cardset information file exists for a particular deck, it will be shown
in the lower part of the selector screen when you click on the list entry.

Please note that the information "scroll bar" cannot be dragged - it is used
as a position indicator only. Hmmm, looks like the SELECT button is now an
endangered species...


5.4) Additional Cardsets

There should be additional cardsets from wherever you got this game.
Alternatively (if you have internet ftp access) contact an Aminet site. The
following are said to hold all files:

USA (MO)	ftp.wustl.edu		128.252.135.4
Germany		kelly.uni-paderborn.de	131.234.128.206
Germany		ftp.uni-paderborn.de	131.234.2.42
UK		src.doc.ic.ac.uk	155.198.1.40

At all these sites, go to the 'pub/aminet/game' directory and get the file
'index' - there should be quite a few cardsets within some of the game
subdirectories.

Windows 95 users can also use another related source easily if they are using
the protected mode drivers (rather than MSCDEX) for their CD-ROM drive. The
Aminet administrator regularly produces CDs containing the most recent files
along with more popular older files, and every so often releases an "Aminet
Set" multi-CD pack. These CDs are available from many (most?) Amiga public
domain companies, so see virtually any Amiga mag for details.

P.S. Aminet uses LHA archives.

Put newly acquired cardsets into the DECKS directory where you installed the
game. The name you use depends on your system. Windows 95 users can use the
original Amiga name (including ".reko" on the end!), but other users have to
use a shorter "8.3" format name, the extension of which MUST be ".REK"


5.5) Known Problems

When clicking on "Prefs", you will be able to see more options on screen than
are available in the game. Specifically, only the "Cardset" option is active.
The "Resolution" option will almost certainly never be active, but the
"Miscellaneous" button may well eventually lead to other options, though
again some of those may be in the same situation as those currently visible.

There exists a "Sherilyn Fenn" cardset which will not work in this game. The
original Amiga cardset generator does not have (as far as I know) a great
deal of error checking, and it appears that the person who created the deck
fed in some oversized images. Since the PC game has more checking (and thus
is less flexible) this problem deck cannot be used. Details are as follows:

   Original Name: "Sherilyn-KlondykeII.reko"    File Size: 808,630 bytes
   Where Found: "LSD & 17 Bit Compendium Deluxe Volume II" (Amiga CDROM)


6) Utilities

Only two at present, though more utilities are either planned or on the way.


6.1) CARDINFO

This is a simple tool to display a few pieces of information about a cardset,
and though it may not be of much real use, the curious will no doubt find a
reason for using it.


6.2) SPLTCRDS

This can be used to split a cardset into individual cards, and can create
either BMP or IFF ILBM pictures. The default is for IFF ILBM, since the
cardset format is closely tied to this, the Amiga's native graphics format.
If you choose to use BMP format, the program creates 24-bit images which
rather neatly gobble up hard disk space at an alarming rate!


7) Technical Notes

The game always uses a 16-bit 800x600 screen mode - 5 bits red, 6 bits green,
5 bits blue. A cardset palette is defined using 24-bits. Notice the word
palette? Yep, depending on the cardset the palette could contain upto 256
colours. Now if these were from a platform other than the Amiga, I would be
using a 256 colour screen mode...

The Amiga has a neat little trick available to it's graphics hardware called
Hold And Modify (HAM) which allows a far greater range of colours than would
otherwise be possible. When the AGA chipset arrived, a new form of HAM mode
was born extending the 4,096 colours range. If you believe DeluxePaint IV
AGA, the new range is 262,144 colours. My theory is that this makes things
nice and simple inside the application, but the figure is wrong - the new
mode allows any of 16,777,216 colours on screen using the new extended 'HAM8'
mode. Reason for confusion?  The HAM8 palette is a full 24-bits wide per
entry, but the 8 bitplanes of picture data can only provide 6 bits of
pallette OR colour information. You're probably more confused now...

In the Amiga HAM modes, the 2 most significant bitplanes don't specify
palette information, but instead specify control information, giving 4
possible meanings to the remaining bitplanes - select palette colour, modify
blue, modify red and modify green. With a modify code, the low two bits of
the specified colour gun are untouched, with the top six bits set as per the
remaining bitplanes. At least, that's as I treat it...

With a carefully chosen palette, the HAM8 mode with it's 64 colour palette
can be almost indistinguishable from a full 24-bit picture, though only
taking up a little over a third of the space. It is for this reason that most
cardsets use HAM8 - maximum value-for-money!


8) Test Machine Specifications

Development and primary test
CPU     486DX4 100 MHz
Memory  16Mb (early tests with 8Mb)
Video   Trident TVGA 9440AGI PCI (1Mb)

Secondary test
CPU     Pentium 120 MHz
Memory  32Mb (early tests with 16Mb)
Video   Tseng Labs ET4000/W32p PCI (2Mb)


9) Credits

Brian 'Aardvark' Handscomb
  PC Coding
  Overlong Docs :-)

Andi 'Powerslave' Bates
  PC Graphics


10) Contacts (EMail) --- details no longer valid, removed

Brian Handscomb
XXXXX@XXXX.XXXX.XX.XX
XXXXX@XXXXXXXXXX.XXX

Andi Bates
XXXXXX.XXXX@XXXXXXXXXX.XXX



The 81st Track
